# Bike rental shop - SQL Case study

##Introduction:
Emily is the shop owner, and she would like to gather data to help her grow the
business. She has hired you as an SQL specialist to get the answers to her
business questions such as How many bikes does the shop own by category?
What was the rental revenue for each month? etc. The answers are hidden in the
database. You just need to figure out how to get them out using SQL.



Understanding the database:
The shop's database consists of 5 tables:
customer
bike
rental
membership_type
membership

Bike rental shop - SQL Case study 2
The customer table
In the first table, customer , you'll find details about the customers of the bike rental
shop. This table contains the following columns:
id : The unique ID of each customer.
name : The customer's name.
email : The customer's email address


The bike table
In the bike table, you'll find information about bikes the rental shop owns.
This table contains the following columns:
id : The unique ID of the bike.
model : The model of the bike.
category : The type of bike (e.g., mountain bike, road bike, hybrid, electric).
price_per_hour : The rental price per hour for the bike.
price_per_day : The rental price per day for the bike.
status : The status of the bike (available, rented, out of service).


The rental table
The rental table matches customers with bikes they have rented. This table has
the following columns:
id : The unique ID of the rental entry.
customer_id : The ID of the customer who rented the bike.
bike_id : The ID of the bike rented.
start_timestamp : The date and time when the rental started.
duration : The duration of the rental in minutes.
total_paid : The total amount paid for the rental.


The membership_type table
The membership_type table has information about the different membership types for
purchase. This table contains the following columns:
id : The unique ID of the membership type.
name : The name of the membership type.
description : A description of the membership type.
price : The price of the membership type.

The membership table
The membership table has information about individual memberships purchased by
customers. This table contains the following columns:
id : The unique ID of the membership.
membership_type_id : The ID of the membership type purchased.
customer_id : The ID of the customer who purchased the membership.
start_date : The start date of the membership.
end_date : The end date of the membership.
total_paid : The total amount paid for the membership.
